>> Kyle Simpson: The first thing that
we wanna do is decide whether or
not the other that we have been provided
is already in the database or not.
If it's not, we need to insert it.
If it is we need to get its ID.
So I'm gonna make a function
that's called insertOrLookup,
we'll call it insertOrLookupOther.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, and
we wanna pass the other value in.
And this is gonna be an asynchronous
operation, so we wanna await on it.
And the thing that we're gonna
be getting back is the otherID.
So the ID of that record
in the other table,
whether we had to make a new record,
or whether we just looked it up,
that's what insertOrLookupOther
is gonna do.
>> Kyle Simpson: So let's define,
>> Kyle Simpson: An async
function called
insertOrLookupOther(other).
>> Kyle Simpson: What we're
going to do is use the SQL3.
And because we're trying
to do a lookup first,
we wanna use the get command which
would return us a single record.
If we need to get multiple records,
we use all.
If we wanna do an insert updated delete,
we use run.
So basically get is
the thing we wanna use.
We're gonna call,
>> Kyle Simpson: SQL3.get,
and we're gonna be awaiting this
because again it's a promise.
We're gonna call .get, and
we wanna give it a string of SQL.
And I'm gonna use the back tick string so
that I can spread my SQL
across multiple lines.
You can use whatever kind of
string works for you, but
I'm gonna spread them
across multiple lines.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, the first thing that
we wanna do is Lookup to see whether Other
is already in our other table.
If it is, we just need the ID.
So we're gonna do SELECT id.
If we look at our schema,
that's the name of our primary key.
I'm gonna SELECT id FROM Other, WHERE,
and then the value here is called data.
So WHERE data =?
And the way you give a placeholder for
values that'll be interpolated in SQL
lights API is use a question mark.
You do not need to do any of
the escaping like escaping or
putting quotes around stuff.
It handles all that for you.
So you just put a placeholder any place
that you're gonna interpolate a value in.
And then we pass as the second argument
the value, in this case, Other.
So we're gonna get back a database result.
It's either going to be a single
object since we called get.
It's either gonna be a single object
with whatever fields on it that we've
asked for, or it's gonna be null or
undefined because it failed.
So what we wanna do is check to see
whether or not we got back an ID.
If result && result.id, then we're done.
We have an ID and we can simply return it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Otherwise,
we need to do a little bit more work,
which is we need to insert our
Other value into that table.
So with this one we're gonna
say result = await SQL3.run,
because we're gonna do
an insert statement.
>> Kyle Simpson: INSERT INTO, the table
we're inserting into is called Other.
The columns that we are using in
the other table are just the data column.
And then the VALUES clause
is going to have just our
single value with our placeholder.
>> Kyle Simpson: And that will
insert Other into the other table.
Now we need to know whether
this succeeded, and if so,
what was the primary key that it inserted,
because we've got an auto increment in
primary key what primary key was used.
And the way we do that is,
if result && result.lastID,
then we're gonna return result.lastID.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so we need to check
to see whether or not that was successful.
So we're gonna say, if otherID.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then with this
otherID, we're gonna do some other work.
And that's when we're
gonna uncomment this,
>> Kyle Simpson: Error because
we want to return if
we've been successful.
>> Kyle Simpson: So now that we have an
otherID that we've just been inserted or
that we looked up, now the next task is we
need to insert into the something table.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we need to make
another function called insertSomething.
We're gonna be,
>> Kyle Simpson: Getting
back a result after awaiting that call.
We need to pass in the otherID, and
we need to pass in the something
value that we've already generated.
>> Kyle Simpson: And if that result
is successful, then we will return.
Otherwise, something went wrong.